number: 257
title: Naukowa jesień: Kwantowi Więźniowie
date: 2021-10-18
description:  Po teorii strun i paradoksie bliźniąt zmierzymy się z kolejnym fizycznym tematem: zgłębimy świat kwantów, rozkładając materię na coraz mniejsze elementy. Ponownie zaprosimy specjalistów od kwantowych zagadnień, tematy te wyjaśnią nam muzycznie artyści z Tides From Nebula, Quarkspace, Hawkwind, (The) Quarks... Jeśli znacie twórczość tych zespołów, to pewnie widzicie pewien wzór: wygląda na to, że mechanikę kwantową najlepiej zrozumieć przy słuchaniu space- i post-rocka ;)
1: Chase The Dragon; Quantum Fantay; Agapanthusterra; 2005
2: Fade To Black; Quarkspace;  Quarkspace; 1996
3: Quark Strangeness And Charm; Hawkwind; Quark Strangeness And Charm;  1977
4: Charm; Quarks; Elemental; 2013
5: Mechanical; The Quarks; Mechanical; 1981
6: Pavlov's Dog Killed Schrodinger's Cat; Trifecta; Fragments; 2021
7: Higgs Boson; Tides From Nebula; Aura; 2006
8: Higgs Boson Blues; Nick Cave And The Bad Seeds; Push The Sky Away; 2013
9: Inter Vivos; Quantum; Quantum; 1983

The Higgs boson is an elementary particle in the Standard Model of particle
 physics produced by the quantum excitation of the Higgs field,
 one of the fields in particle physics theory. In the Standard Model,
  the Higgs particle is a massive scalar boson with zero spin, no electric charge, and no colour charge.

dance

The Quarks – The Quarks (The Quarks / President President 1981-1991 Recordings)

The title for the debut came about as Nick Beggs explains
“We discussed early on, the idea of each piece having a Fragment number and track title,
for example – ‘Fragment 10 - Pavlov’s Dog Killed Schrodinger’s Cat’.
 As all the compositions were written as jams or in our home studios this
 idea seemed even more prescient. So, we titled the album ‘Fragments’”.



igor herbuć

Quantum Fantay started when Pieter van den Broeck (aka Pete Mush)
 and Wouter de Geest (aka Jaro (7)) formed a new psychedelic/space rock band in Lokeren,
 Belgium in 2002 after they'd both been in the now disbanded "Oregon".

 Psychedelic/Space Rock -

 psychodeliczna muzyka zeby zrozumiec, odpowiedni umyslowy nastroj
 a moze wlasnie jak sie rozwaza takie kwantowe tematy, kosmologie, sens wszechswiata to spod palcow wychodzi taki space rock.

 Psychedelic/Space Rock • United States

 arting to produce the 'Spacefolds' series -
 primarily on cassette tape and later ported on CD-R -
  the band's emphasis changed to long spacey improvisations during the next years.
   They participated at several festivals alongside of Hawkwind,
https://www.kwantowo.pl/2014/03/07/kwarki-czyli-kwantowi-wiezniowie/




 Graviton is a side project around Intronaut's guitarist/vocalist Sacha Dunable. Together with Derek Donley and Darin Tambascio from the band National Sunday Law, Graviton explores more experimental and ambient ground then both Intronaut and National Sunday Law do. 'Massless' was recorded in 2010, prior to 'Valley of Smoke' but not released till 2011.
The music is very laid-back, progressive and psychedelic, with even some electronic experiments. The metal element has become hardly more then an afterthought, but the downcast mood of the music is still very much post-metal. The music is quite excellent, captivating right from the start and getting better near the end of the album. But there's a serious issue with the vocals for me. Sacha's clean vocals on the last Intronaut drained the album of much of its bite and energy, and this is also the case here. But ok, even though some songs become a monotone drone due to the uninspired (I'd even say non-existent) vocal lines, other songs work quite well. And let's not forget that the album is largely instrumental.
I think that fans of the quieter side of post-metal, take for instance Intronaut's more reflective work on 'Valley of Smoke', will enjoy this quite a lot. But a warning must go out against the sometimes disappointing vocals in the first half of the album. Still 3.5 stars. Probably more for fans of post-metal.